README.md, before:

# UCL GIS MSc 2017-18

This repository contains some of the cousework submitted for the UCL GIS Msc.

## TERM 1

### GEOGG0125 - GIS Principles of Spatial Analysis

This module focused on understanding the principles underlying spatial phenomena and learning R to examine and analyse spatial data.

* Coursework 1 - Understanding London using Open Data ([r code](https://github.com/nicolacritten/ucl_gis_msc/blob/master/GEOGG0125/Green%20space%20and%20Anxiety%20in%20London.R))

This report analyses the spatial distribution of anxiety levels and access to green space throughout the boroughs of London and then provides an initial exploration into whether there is a relationship between the two.

* Coursework 2 - Exploratory Data Analysis ([r code](https://github.com/nicolacritten/ucl_gis_msc/blob/master/GEOGG0125/LondonHousePrices.R))

This report aims to explore and model the spatial distribution of house prices across London and comment on the disparity between boroughs. Then to combine the house price results with household income data to see if there is a correlation.

### CEGEG082 - GIS Principles and Technology

This module provided an overview into the principles and techniques used in the analysis of spatial data. It involved learning Python, which was used in the courswork to solve a point-in-polygon algorithm.

* Coursework - Point in Polygon Python Assignment ([python code](https://github.com/nicolacritten/ucl_gis_msc/blob/master/CEGEG082/PIP.py))

This assignment involved writing a Python program to determine whether any given point lies inside or outside a polygon using a ray casting algorithm.

### CEGEG0126 - Representations, Structures, and Algorithms

This module explored the data models, data structures and algorithms that are fundamental to GISs and methods of spatial analysis.

* Coursework - The assessment of a GIS algorithm used within two published academic papers, followed by, the comparison and testing of two GIS algorithms using QGIS and ArcMap software

This piece of coursework aims to provide insight into the way algorithms are carried out using different GIS software packages and identity any exception cases where the algorithms may fail. In this case, the implementation of the buffer and centroid tools in QGIS and ArcGIS were considered.

Commit message:

Editing the README file. Adding images file.

README.md, after:

# UCL GIS MSc 2017-18

This repository contains some of the cousework submitted for the UCL GIS Msc.

## TERM 1

### GEOGG0125 - GIS Principles of Spatial Analysis

This module focused on understanding the principles underlying spatial phenomena and learning R to examine and analyse spatial data.

* Coursework 1 - Understanding London using Open Data ([r code](https://github.com/nicolacritten/ucl_gis_msc/blob/master/GEOGG0125/Green%20space%20and%20Anxiety%20in%20London.R))

This report analyses the spatial distribution of anxiety levels and access to green space throughout the boroughs of London and then provides an initial exploration into whether there is a relationship between the two.

* Coursework 2 - Exploratory Data Analysis ([r code](https://github.com/nicolacritten/ucl_gis_msc/blob/master/GEOGG0125/LondonHousePrices.R))

This report aims to explore and model the spatial distribution of house prices across London and comment on the disparity between boroughs. Then to combine the house price results with household income data to see if there is a correlation.

### CEGEG082 - GIS Principles and Technology

This module provided an overview into the principles and techniques used in the analysis of spatial data. It involved learning Python, which was used in the courswork to solve a point-in-polygon algorithm.

* Coursework - Point in Polygon Python Assignment ([python code](https://github.com/nicolacritten/ucl_gis_msc/blob/master/CEGEG082/PIP.py))

![alt text](/images/pip.png)

This assignment involved writing a Python program to determine whether any given point lies inside or outside a polygon using a ray casting algorithm. It can be used to load a polygon and points from a list of coordinates in any given CSV file.

### CEGEG0126 - Representations, Structures, and Algorithms

This module explored the data models, data structures and algorithms that are fundamental to GISs and methods of spatial analysis.

* Coursework - The assessment of a GIS algorithm used within two published academic papers, followed by, the comparison and testing of two GIS algorithms using QGIS and ArcMap software

This piece of coursework aims to provide insight into the way algorithms are carried out using different GIS software packages and identity any exception cases where the algorithms may fail. In this case, the implementation of the buffer and centroid tools in QGIS and ArcGIS were considered.
